Hello gentlemen, my name is Mati. I've
been a market maker for seven years
making more than 30 million euro for a
large investment bank and now I run my
own hedge fund where I automate every
single one of my trading strategies. On
the side, I'm trying to kick off this
YouTube channel as part of a bigger
project properly educate retail traders
beyond the misinformations you find
online. So I would really appreciate if
you follow along and if you drop a
random word in the comments to make both
me and algorithm very happy. Let's ride.
Many of you ask me in the comments for
suggestions to code extremely
complicated trading strategies. And
listen, it is cool that you are curious.
It is cool that you are ambitious. But
here is the problem. Most of you are
building your first automated trading
strategy and you have hardcoded in your
brains that the more complex it is, the
better it must perform. I really need
you to understand something. In trading,
this is simply not true. Actually, the
reality is often the opposite. A lot of
retail trading gurus push for insane
level of complexity because they have no
idea of what they're doing. Complexity
hides ignorance and it gives them
insurance. If they sell you a $3,000
course and you don't make money, they
can blame you for not applying all the
20 confluences in the right order. It's
not educational. just fraud disguised as
sophistication. The same applies if
you're still at university. Often there
is this bias that complexity equals
intelligence. Some of you are students
and I get it. I was the same. Academia
teaches you that if it is complex, it
must be smarter, more advanced, hence
more profitable. But in trading,
complexity usually cost you money. The
more moving parts, the more places your
strategy can break. And when you start
building predictive narrow networks
without understanding the underlying
logics, you have no idea if the model is
suggesting something meaningful or
complete nonsense. I need you to step
back and imprint this in your mind. You
are a good trader when a simple well
ststructured strategy can make you money
consistently. That's where the real
skill lives. The benefit of keeping it
simple. It's easy to develop. You
understand every logic behind it. You
can verify that the execution
matches your rules. You instantly know
when your strategy stops working.
Debugging is easy and optimization
becomes meaningful instead of random.
Your goal should always be the best P&L,
the lowest draw down and the smoothest
equity curve with the least possible
amount of complexity. Back in the 80s, a
trader named Richard Dennis created one
of the most famous and successful
trading experiment. He trained a group
of complete beginners named the tartal
traders and taught them one of the
simplest trend following strategies ever
built. As a result, he ended up making
hundreds of millions. And here is the
strategy. If the price is above the 200
period moving average, look for long
trades. If the price is below the 200
period moving average, look for shorts.
Enter when the price breaks the previous
40 bars, high or low. And as an exit
condition, use a two times ATR
stop-loss. And that's it. This thing
made them millions. I coded this exactly
trading strategy in a piece of code for
multi- charts putting a risk as my
position sizing 2% of the account for
each trade encoding my entry condition
based on the 200 period simple moving
average long when it's above and short
when it is below and a stop loss purely
based on the ATR the average true range
a proxy for the volatility of the
instrument. In this way, I can apply
this strategy on a 60-minute charts,
which is the time frame the richer than
is used. And as an instrument, I decided
to use ENQ. So, the NASDAQ 100 mini
contracts futures. The question is, how
can you get a code like this? Simply do
a quick research on the internet, find
the rules that they follow and ask JGPT
or code to translate them into code. You
have access to one of the most powerful
tool ever created. Use it. Let's have a
look at the result of this back test.
Just looking at the equity curve, is it
a perfect strategy?
Not at all. There are draw downs that I
consider large. There are periods where
for a couple of years nothing really
happened. Yet the equity curve it is
surprising. There is a positive drift.
It looks like there is consistency in
this strategy and the strategy is simple
enough that we can validate if it is
doing what it is supposed to do as a
breakout system. This strategy when it
loses loses a little bit and when it
wins it wins big and this is in line
with the characteristic of a breakout
system that can work in the long run but
we don't rely on what we can see. We
always use data looking at the stats.
This strategy is profitable around 30%
of the time. But we have an average
winning trade of $4,850
versus an average losing trade of
$1,700.
So, we are in the right direction. And
this is a good starting point to build
your own trading strategy. Note based on
something 100% inspired by free material
found on the internet. This should help
you to start changing the way you think
about the whole trading process. Don't
try to code the 12 layers multi-regime
volatility adjusted hyper optimized
system on day one. Instead, find a
strategy based on academic papers. Quote
the simplest possible version. a clear
entry with one or two conditions and a
simple takerit
and stop-loss
set in dollar amounts. Back test it and
if the equity curve looks promising, it
has this positive drift, add degrees of
complexity. If it doesn't, throw it away
and test the next one. On top of that,
test the same strategy across different
instruments because a strategy that
fails on futures on the S&P 500, it
might work beautifully on gold or oil or
single stocks. And that's how you build
your portfolio of trading strategies. As
a final message, you now have access to
tools like JPT,
Clo, Deepseek, Gemini that let you test
hundreds of idea fast. Use it to explore
many simple ideas, not to get stuck
trying to code an insanely complex one.
Focus on a clear entry, a clear exit,
and simple sizing. The goal is to master
simplicity. Then add complexity with
intention, and that's how real traders
evolve. As always, if you found this
interesting, please follow the channel
and leave a comment that there is much
more to come.